Adds microshift storage plugin overview content (#53960)
openshift/openshift-docs: microshift_storage/persistent_storage_microshift/microshift-storage-plugin-overview.adoc

toc::[]

{product-title} enables dynamic storage provisioning that is ready for immediate use with the logical volume manager storage (LVMS) Container Storage Interface (CSI) provider. The LVMS plugin is the Red Hat downstream version of TopoLVM, a CSI plug-in for managing LVM volumes for Kubernetes. 

> LVMS provisions new logical volume management (LVM) logical volumes (LVs) for container workloads with appropriately configured PersistentVolumeClaims (PVC). Each PVC references a StorageClass that represents an LVM Volume Group (VG) on the host node.  LVs are only provisioned for scheduled pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LVMS provisions new logical volume management (LVM) logical volumes (LVs) for container workloads with appropriately configured persistent volume claims (PVC). Each PVC references a storage class that represents an LVM Volume Group (VG) on the host node.  LVs are only provisioned for scheduled pods.
```
See the glossary on [persistent volume claims](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/term_glossary.adoc#storage-class) and [storage class](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/term_glossary.adoc#storage-class)

[id="lvms-deployment"]

> == Deployment 

Reviewer: When you break this into individual modules, I think these headings would benefit from more descriptive/specific titles. Just something simple like _LVMS deployment_

> == Deployment 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== LVMS deployment 
```

<2> `map[string]DeviceClass`. The `device-class` settings. 
<3> String. The name of the `device-class`.
<4> String. The group where the `device-class` creates the logical volumes. 
<5> unit64. Storage capacity in GiB to be spared. Defaults to `10`. 
<6> Boolean. Indicates that the `device-class` is used by default. Defaults to `false`. 
<7> unit. The number of stripes in the logical volume.
<8> String. The amount of data that is written to one device before moving to the next device. 
<9> String. Extra arguments to pas `lvcreate`, for example, `[--type=raid1"`]. 
+
[NOTE]
====
Striping can be configured by using the dedicated options (`stripe` and `stripe-size`) and `lvcreate-options`. Either option can be used, but they cannot be used together. Using `stripe` and `stripe-size` with `lvcreate-options` leads to duplicate arguments to `lvcreate`. You should never set `lvcreate-options: ["--stripes=n"]` and `stripe: n` at the same time. You can, however, use both, when `lvcreate-options` is not used for striping. For example: 

[source,yaml]
----
stripe: 2
lvcreate-options: ["--mirrors=1"]
----
====

[id="setting-lvms-path"]
=== Setting the LVMS path 

> The `config.yaml` file for the LMVS should be written to the same directory as the MicroShift `config.yaml` file. If a MicroShift `config.yaml` file does not exist, MicroShift will create an LVMS `config.yaml` file and automatically populate the configuration fields with the default settings. The following paths are checked for the `config.yaml` file, depending on which user runs MicroShift: 

Reviewer: Not meaning to provide technical review, but if the LVMS `config.yaml` file and the MicroShift `config.yaml` file are written to the same directory, won't one filename overwrite the other?

Or should they be in the same parent directory?

Reviewer: Or do the files have a different filename? I see `lvmd.yaml` below. So maybe it should be something like, "The LMVS configuration file, `lvmd.yaml`, ...

.LVMS paths 
[options="header",cols="1,3"]
|===
| MicroShift user | Configuration directory 
|Global administrator | `/etc/microshift/lvmd.yaml`
|===

[id="lvms-system-requirements"]
== LVMS system requirements 

{product-title}'s LVMS requires the following system specifications. 

[id="lvms-volume-group-name"]

> === Volume Group Name 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== LVMS Volume Group Name 
```

toc::[]

> {product-title} enables dynamic storage provisioning out of the box with the logical volume manager storage (LVMS) Container Storage Interface (CSI) provider. The LVMS plugin is Red Hat's downstream version of TopoLVM--a CSI plugin for managing LVM volumes for Kubernetes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{product-title} enables dynamic storage provisioning that is ready for immediate use with the logical volume manager storage (LVMS) Container Storage Interface (CSI) provider. The LVMS plugin is Red Hat's downstream version of TopoLVM, a CSI plugin for managing LVM volumes for Kubernetes. 
```
See the [ISG guidance ](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#out-of-the-box) on _out of the box_ and [dashes](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=punctuation-dashes). My understanding is that en dashes should only be used for ranges, and we do not use em dashes in technical docs.

Reviewer: With the new rule on _plugin_ as the preferred term over _plug-in_, I recommend updating your H1 title on line 3 to _MicroShift storage plugin overview_.

Reviewer: Also, I think that we aren't supposed to use possessives for product names, or to say something belongs to RH or IBM. WDYT? https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=grammar-possessives

Author: Got it

LVMS uses `StorageCapacity` tracking to ensure that pods with an LVMS PVC are not scheduled if the requested storage is greater than the volume group's remaining free storage. For more information about `StorageCapacity` tracking, see link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-capacity/[Storage Capacity]. 

[id="lvms-configuring"]
== Configuring the LVMS 

{product-title} supports passing through a user's LVMS configuration and allows users to specify custom volume groups, thin volume provisioning parameters, and reserved unallocated volume group space. The LVMS configuration file can be edited at any time. You must restart {product-title} to deploy configuration changes. 

The following `config.yaml` file shows a basic LVMS configuration: 

.LVMS YAML configuration 
[source,yaml]
----
socket-name: <1>
device-classes: <2>
  - name: <3>
    volume-group: <4>
    spare-gb: <5>
    default: <6>
  - name: hdd
    volume-group: hdd-vg
    spare-gb: 10
  - name: striped
    volume-group: multi-pv-vg
    spare-gb: 10
    stripe: <7>
    stripe-size: <8>
  - name: raid
    volume-group: raid-vg
    lvcreate-options: <9>
      - --type=raid1
----

> <1> String. The Unix domain socket endpoint of gRPC. Defaults to  `/run/topolvm/lvmd.sock`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> String. The UNIX domain socket endpoint of gRPC. Defaults to  `/run/topolvm/lvmd.sock`. 
```
https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#unix

<2> `map[string]DeviceClass`. The `device-class` settings. 
<3> String. The name of the `device-class`.
<4> String. The group where the `device-class` creates the logical volumes. 
<5> unit64. Storage capacity in GiB to be spared. Defaults to `10`. 
<6> Boolean. Indicates that the `device-class` is used by default. Defaults to `false`. 
<7> unit. The number of stripes in the logical volume.
<8> String. The amount of data that is written to one device before moving to the next device. 
<9> String. Extra arguments to pas `lvcreate`, for example, `[--type=raid1"`]. 
+
[NOTE]
====
Striping can be configured by using the dedicated options (`stripe` and `stripe-size`) and `lvcreate-options`. Either option can be used, but they cannot be used together. Using `stripe` and `stripe-size` with `lvcreate-options` leads to duplicate arguments to `lvcreate`. You should never set `lvcreate-options: ["--stripes=n"]` and `stripe: n` at the same time. You can, however, use both, when `lvcreate-options` is not used for striping. For example: 

[source,yaml]
----
stripe: 2
lvcreate-options: ["--mirrors=1"]
----
====

[id="setting-lvms-path"]
=== Setting the LVMS path 

> The `config.yaml` file for the LMVS should be written to the same directory as the MicroShift `config.yaml` file. If a MicroShift `config.yaml` file does not exist, MicroShift will create an LVMS `config.yaml` file and automatically populate the configuration fields with the default settings. The following paths are checked for the `config.yaml` file, depending on the user that MicroShift is run by: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `config.yaml` file for the LMVS should be written to the same directory as the MicroShift `config.yaml` file. If a MicroShift `config.yaml` file does not exist, MicroShift will create an LVMS `config.yaml` file and automatically populate the configuration fields with the default settings. The following paths are checked for the `config.yaml` file, depending on which user runs MicroShift: 
```
Does that change the meaning too much?

[id="lvms-volume-size-increments"]
=== Volume size increments 

The LVMS provisions storage in increments of 1 GB. Storage requests are rounded up to the nearest gigabyte (GB). When a volume group's capacity is less than 1 GB, the `PersistentVolumeClaim` registers a `ProvisioningFailed` event, for example: 

[source,terminal]
----
Warning  ProvisioningFailed    3s (x2 over 5s)  topolvm.cybozu.com_topolvm-controller-858c78d96c-xttzp_0fa83aef-2070-4ae2-bcb9-163f818dcd9f failed to provision volume with 
StorageClass "topolvm-provisioner": rpc error: code = ResourceExhausted desc = no enough space left on VG: free=(BYTES_INT), requested=(BYTES_INT)
----

[id=using-lvms]
== Using the LVMS

The LVMS `StorageClass` is deployed with a default `StorageClass`. Any `PersistentVolumeClaim` objects without a `.spec.storageClassName` defined automatically has a `PersistentVolume` provisioned from the default `StorageClass`. 

> Use the following procedure to provision and mount a logical volume to a pod. 
> 
> .Procedure 
> 
> * Enter...

Reviewer: I think if you keep it a procedure with one step, it should be updated:

```suggestion
.Procedure 

* To provision and mount a logical volume to a pod, enter the following command:
```
ISG: [Commands, parameters, and options in instructions](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=elements-commands#commands-parameters-and-options-in-instructions)

Alternatively, it might make sense to take it another direction, such as: 
```suggestion

The following example demonstrates how to provision and mount a logical volume to a pod. 
```
ISG: [Code and command examples](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=elements-code-command-examples)

+
[source,terminal]
----

> cat <<'EOF' | oc apply -f -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ cat <<'EOF' | oc apply -f -
```

toc::[]

{product-title} enables dynamic storage provisioning out of the box with the logical volume manager storage (LVMS) Container Storage Interface (CSI) provider. The LVMS plugin is a downstream version of Red Hat's TopoLVM--a CSI plugin that uses LVM for Kubernetes. 

The {product-title} provisioner creates a new LVM in the `rhel` volume group for each Persistent Volume Claim (PVC). The volumes are available to {product-title} pods. 

[id="lvms-deployment"]
== Deployment 

> {product-title}'s LVMS is automatically deployed on to the cluster in the `openshift-storage` namespace after {product-title} boots. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
LVMS is automatically deployed on to the cluster in the `openshift-storage` namespace after {product-title} boots. 
```

> The LVMS uses `StorageCapacity` tracking to ensure that pods with an LVMS PVC are not scheduled if the requested storage is greater than the volume group's remaining free storage. For more information about `StorageCapacity` tracking, see link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-capacity/[Storage Capacity]. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
LVMS uses `StorageCapacity` tracking to ensure that pods with an LVMS PVC are not scheduled if the requested storage is greater than the volume group's remaining free storage. For more information about `StorageCapacity` tracking, see link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-capacity/[Storage Capacity]. 
```

<9> String. Extra arguments to pas `lvcreate`, for example, `[--type=raid1"`]. 
+
[NOTE]
====
Striping can be configured by using the dedicated options (`stripe` and `stripe-size`) and `lvcreate-options`. Either option can be used, but they cannot be used together. Using `stripe` and `stripe-size` with `lvcreate-options` leads to duplicate arguments to `lvcreate`. You should never set `lvcreate-options: ["--stripes=n"]` and `stripe: n` at the same time. You can, however, use both, when `lvcreate-options` is not used for striping. For example: 

[source,yaml]
----
stripe: 2
lvcreate-options: ["--mirrors=1"]
----
====

[id="setting-lvms-path"]
=== Setting the LVMS path 

The `config.yaml` file for the LMVS should be written to the same directory as the MicroShift `config.yaml` file. If a MicroShift `config.yaml` file does not exist, MicroShift will create an LVMS `config.yaml` file and automatically populate the configuration fields with the default settings. The following paths are checked for the `config.yaml` file, depending on the user that MicroShift is run by: 

.LVMS paths 
[options="header",cols="1,3"]
|===
| MicroShift user | Configuration directory 

> |User administrator | `~/.microshift/lvmd.yaml`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This path has been dropped.

|Global administrator | `/etc/microshift/lvmd.yaml`
|===

[id="lvms-system-requirements"]
== LVMS system requirements 

{product-title}'s LVMS requires the following system specifications. 

[id="lvms-volume-group-name"]
=== Volume Group Name 

> The default integration of LVMS assumes a volume group named `rhel`. Prior to launching, the `rhel` volume group must exist. If the volume group does not exist, the node controller will fail to start and enter a `CrashLoopBackoff` state. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default integration of LVMS assumes a volume group named `rhel`. Prior to launching, the lvmd.yaml configuration must specify an existing volume group on the node with sufficient capacity for workload storage. If the volume group does not exist, the node controller will fail to start and enter a `CrashLoopBackoff` state. 
```
